G:\P\16\AOI\ARTICLES_FINAL.XML




                                                                              (Original Signature of Member)


               116TH CONGRESS
                                   1ST SESSION        H.        R         .


                        Impeaching Donald John Trump, President of the United States, for high
                                                          crimes and misdemeanors.




                                      IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES


                       Mr. NADLER submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the
                                          Committee on




                                                 RESOLUTION
                          Impeaching Donald John Trump, President of the United
                                         States, for high crimes and misdemeanors.
                p—n




                                        Resolved, That Donald J. Trump, President of the
                 \DOO\10\U14§UJN




                                   United States, is impeached for high crimes and mis-

                                   demeanors and that the following articles of impeachment

                                   be exhibited to the United States Senate:

                                        Articles of impeachment exhibited by the House of

                                   Representatives of the United States of America in the

                                   name of itself and of the people of the United States of

                                   America, against Donald J. Trump, President of the

                                   United States of America, in maintenance and support of

g:\VHLC\121019\121019.007.me                 (752044I6)
December 10, 2019 (7:16 am.)
G:\P\l6\AOI\ARTICLES__FINAL.XML

                                                                                                    2




                                           \OOO\]O\Ul-I>L»Jl\)l—I
                                                                    its impeachment against him for high crimes and mis-

                                                                    demeanors.

                                                                                       ARTICLE I: ABUSE OF POWER

                                                                         The Constitution provides that the House of Rep-

                                                                    resentatives “shall have the sole Power of Impeachment”

                                                                    and that the President “shall be removed from Office on

                                                                    Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or

                                                                    other high Crimes and Misdemeanors”. In his conduct of

                                                                    the office of President of the United States—and in viola-
                NNNNNNl—‘Hb—‘Hl—KHHO—IHH
                                            O




                                                                    tion of his constitutional oath faithfully to execute the 0f-
                                           H




                                                                    fice of President of the United States and, t0 the best of
                                           N




                                                                    his ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution
                                           U.)




                                                                    of the United States, and in violation of his constitutional
                                           A




                                                                    duty to take care that the laws be faithfully executed—
                                           U!




                                                                    Donald J. Trump has abused the powers of the Presi-
                                           O'\




                                                                    dency, in that:
                                           \1




                                                                         Using the powers of his high office, President Trump
                                           00




                                                                    Solicited   the      interference   of   a   foreign   government,
                                           \O




                                                                    Ukraine, in the 2020 United States Presidential election.
                                           t-‘_O




                                                                    He did so through a scheme or course of conduct that

                                                                    included soliciting the Government of Ukraine to publicly
                                           N




                                                                    announce investigations that would benefit his reelection,
                                           DJ




                                                                    harm the election prospects of a political opponent, and
                                           -I>




                                                                    inﬂuence the 2020 United States Presidential election to
                                           UI




                                                                    his advantage. President Trump also sought to pressure

               26 the Government of Ukraine to take these steps by condi-
                                                  (752044I6)
December 10, 2019 (7:16 am.)
G:\P\1 6\AOI\ARTICLES_F1NAL.XML

                                                                                  3
                                   1 tioning official United States Government acts of signifi-


                                    ©00\]O\M4>WN
                                                   cant value to Ukraine on its public announcement of the

                                                   investigations. President Trump engaged in this scheme

                                                   or course of conduct for corrupt purposes in pursuit of

                                                   personal political benefit. In so doing, President Trump

                                                   used the powers of the Presidency in a manner that com-

                                                   promised the national security of the United States and

                                                   undermined the integrity of the United States democratic

                                                   process. He thus ignored and injured the interests of the
                NNNNNNHr—nr—IHr—nr—Ar—Ir—nr—tr—A
                Lh-PLDNF—‘OKDOOQCAUI-PUJNl—‘O




                                                   Nation.

                                                       President Trump engaged in this scheme or course

                                                   of conduct through the following means:

                                                             ( 1) President Trump—acting both directly and

                                                       through his agents within and Outside the United

                                                       States Government—corruptly solicited the Govern-

                                                       ment of Ukraine to publicly announce investigations

                                                       into—

                                                                    (A) a political opponent, former Vice Presi—

                                                             dent Joseph R. Biden, Jr.; and

                                                                    (B) a discredited theory promoted by Rus-

                                                             sia alleging that Ukraine—rather than Rus-

                                                             sia—interfered in the 2016 United States Pres-

                                                             idential election.

                                                             (2) With the same corrupt motives, President

                                                       Trump—acting both directly and through his agents


                               (752044I6)
December 10, 2019 (7:16 am.)
G:\P\1 6\AOI\ARTICLES_F1NAL.XML

                                                   4
                 1          within and outside the United States G0vernment—

                 2          conditioned two ofﬁcial acts on the public announce—

                 3          ments that he had requested—

                 4                      (A) the release of $391 million of United
                 5               States taxpayer funds that Congress had appro—

                 6               priated on a bipartisan basis for the purpose of

                 7               providing vital military and security assistance

                 8               to Ukraine to oppose Russian aggression and

                 9               which President Trump had ordered suspended;

               1-0               and

               11                       (B) a head of state meeting at the White

               12                House, which the President of Ukraine sought

               13                to demonstrate continued United States support

               14                for the Government of Ukraine in the face of

               15                Russian aggression.

               16                (3) Faced with the public revelation of his ac-

               17           tions, President Trump ultimately released the mili—

               18           tary and security assistance to the Government of

               19           Ukraine, but has persisted in openly and corruptly

               20           urging and soliciting Ukraine to undertake investiga-

               21           tions for his personal political benefit.

               22           These     actions   were   consistent   with   President

               23 Trump’s previous invitations of foreign interference in

               24 United States elections.




   (752044I6)
December 10, 2019 (7:16 am.)
G:\P\1 6\AOI\ARTICLES_F1NAL.XML

                                                                          5




                      \OOO\]O‘\Ul-I>U-)l\)rd
                                                    In all of this, President Trump abused the powers

                                               of the Presidency by ignoring and injuring national secu-

                                               rity and other vital national interests to obtain an im-

                                               proper personal political benefit. He has also betrayed the

                                               Nation by abusing his high office to enlist a foreign power

                                               in corrupting democratic elections.

                                                   Wherefore President Trump, by such conduct, has

                                               demonstrated that he will remain a threat to national se-

                                               curity and the Constitution if allowed to remain in office,
                y—n
                        O




                                               and has acted in a manner grossly incompatible with self-

                11 governance and the rule of law. President Trump thus

                12 warrants impeachment and trial, removal from office, and

                13 disqualification to hold and enjoy any Office of honor,

                14 trust, or profit under the United States.
                15                                     ARTICLE II: OBSTRUCTION OF CONGRESS

                16                                  The Constitution provides that the House of Rep-

                17 resentatives “shall have the sole Power of Impeachment”

                18 and that the President “shall be removed from Office on

                19 Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or

               20 other high Crimes and Misdemeanors”. In his conduct of

               21 the office of President of the United States—and in viola-

             ' 22 tion of his constitutional oath faithfully to execute the of-

               23 fice of President of the United States and, to the best of

               24 his ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution

               25 of the United States, and in Violation of his constitutional

               26 duty to take care that the laws be faithfully executed—
                          (752044I6)
December 10, 2019 (7:16 am.)
G:\P\1 6\AOI\ARTICLES _FI.NAL.XML

                                                                                                     6




                                              \DOOQONUI-RUJNr—t
                                                                        Donald J. Trump has directed the unprecedented, categor-

                                                                        ical, and indiscriminate defiance of subpoenas issued by

                                                                        the House of Representatives pursuant to its “sole Power

                                                                        of Impeachmen ”. President Trump has abused the pow-

                                                                        ers of the Presidency in a manner offensive to, and subver—

                                                                        sive of, the Constitution, in that:

                                                                              The House of Representatives has engaged in an im—

                                                                        peachment inquiry focused on President Trump’s corrupt

                                                                        solicitation of the Government of Ukraine to interfere in
                                              #mNi—‘OCOOQQUl-PUJNP-‘O
                NNNNNHHHHr—tr—dr—tp—tp—tp—a




                                                                        the 2020 United States Presidential election. As part of

                                                                        this impeachment inquiry, the Committees undertaking

                                                                        the investigation served subpoenas seeking documents and

                                                                        testimony deemed vital to the inquiry from various Execu-

                                                                        tive Branch agencies and offices, and current and former

                                                                        officials.

                                                                             In response, without lawful cause or excuse, Presi-

                                                                        dent Trump directed Executive Branch agencies, offices,

                                                                        and officials not to comply with those subpoenas. Presi-

                                                                        dent Trump thus interposed the powers of the Presidency

                                                                        against the lawful subpoenas of the House of Representa-

                                                                        tives, and assumed to himself functions and judgments

                                                                        necessary to the exercise of the “sole Power of Impeach—

                                                                        ment” vested by the Constitution in the House of Rep-

                                                                        resentatives.




                                                       (752044I6)
December 10. 2019 (7:16 am.)
G:\P\ 1 6\AOI\ARTICLES_F1NAL.XML

                                                     7
                               President Trump abused the powers of his high office

                      through the following means:

                                    (1) Directing the White House to defy a lawful

                               subpoena by withholding the production of docu-

                               ments sought therein by the Committees.

                                    (2) Directing other Executive Branch agencies

                               and offices to defy lawful subpoenas and withhold

                               the production of documents and records from the

                               Committees—in response to which the Department

                               of State, Office of Management and Budget, Depart-

                11             ment of Energy, and Department of Defense refused

                               to produce a single document or record.

                13                 (3) Directing current and former Executive

                14             Branch officials not to cooperate with the Commit-

                15             tees—in response to which nine Administration offi-

                16             cials defied subpoenas for testimony, namely John

                17             Michael “Mick” Mulvaney, Robert B. Blair, John A.

                18             Eisenberg, Michael Ellis, Preston Wells Griffith,

                19             Russell T. Vought, Michael Duffey, Brian McCor—

                20             mack, and T. Ulrich Brechbuhl.

                21             These    actions   were   consistent   with   President

               22 Trump’s‘previous efforts to undermine United States Gov-

               23 ernment investigations into foreign interference in United

               24 States elections.




g:\VHLC\121019\121019007.me        (752044I6)
December 10, 2019 (7:16 am.)
G: \P\1 6\AOI\ARTICLES_F1NAL.XML

                                                                                         8




                                           \OOOQQM-IRUJNH
                                                                  Through these actions, President Trump sought to

                                                             arrogate to himself the right to determine the propriety,

                                                             scope, and nature of an impeachment inquiry into his own

                                                             conduct, as well as the unilateral prerogative to deny any

                                                             and all information to the House of Representatives in the

                                                             exercise of its “sole Power of Impeachment”. In the his-

                                                             tory of the Republic, no President has ever ordered the

                                                             complete defiance of an impeachment inquiry or sought

                                                             to obstruct and impede so comprehensively the ability of
                NNNNNNHHHr—Ir—tr—AHr—Ir—AH
                                                         O




                                                             the House of Representatives to investigate “high Crimes
                                                       H




                                                             and Misdemeanors”. This abuse of ofﬁce served to cover
                                                     N




                                                             up the President’s own repeated misconduct and to seize
                                                 U.)




                                                             and control the power of impeachment—and thus to nul-
                                              4>




                                                             lify a vital constitutional safeguard vested solely in the
                                           U!




                                                             House of Representatives.
                                       O’\




                                                                  In all of this, President Trump has acted in a manner
                                    \l




                                                             contrary to his trust as President and subversive of con-
                                 00




                                                             stitutional government, to the great prejudice of the cause
                              \O




                                                             of law and justice, and to the manifest injury of the people
                            O




                                                             of the United States.
                          H




                                                                 Wherefore, President Trump, by such conduct, has
                        N




                                                             demonstrated that he will remain a threat to the Constitu-
                   A'UJ




                                                             tion if allowed to remain in office, and has acted in a man-

                                                             ner grossly incompatible with self—governance and the rule
                U]




                                                             of law. President Trump thus warrants impeachment and


g:\VHLC\121019\121019007.me                                           (752044I6)
December 10, 2019 (7:16 am.)
G:\P\16\AOI\ARTICLES_F]NAL.XML

                                              9
                 1 trial, removal from office, and disqualification to hold and

                 2 enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United

                 3 States.




  (752044I6)
December 10, 2019 (7:16 am.)
